##########
Starfeeder
##########

.. include:: ../README.rst

============
Installation
============

To install, you just unzip it and run the ``starfeeder.exe`` executable.

==============
Database setup
==============

When you first run Starfeeder you might see this:

.. image:: screenshots/database_url_not_specified.png

Before it'll work you'll also need to set an environment variable to point to a
database. The simplest would be to use SQLite (https://www.sqlite.org/),
like this:

.. code-block::

    set STARFEEDER_DATABASE_URL=sqlite:///C:\path\to\starfeeder_database.sqlite3

... and then run Sqliteman (http://sqliteman.yarpen.cz/) to inspect the
database. But the software supports other databases (e.g. MySQL, others:
http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/core/engines.html) via this URL scheme.
The configuration and data are stored in this database.

If the database isn't structured correctly, as it won't be if you've just
invented the URL (so a blank database is autocreated), the first time you run
it you get a button to "Upgrade database" (then close and re-run).

.. image:: screenshots/database_wrong_revision.png

Here's the happy starting screen:

.. image:: screenshots/start_screen.png

=============
Configuration
=============

Configure like this:

.. image:: screenshots/configure_main.png

.. image:: screenshots/configure_rfid.png

*I am not completely sure if the RFID reader supports any flow control. Under
Linux, XON/XOFF and RTS/CTS don't break it (but that doesn't mean it uses them).
Under Windows, RTS/CTS breaks it. The physical serial interface inside it is
RS-485, which is two-wire and therefore not only can't have RTS/CTS but is
unidirectional. I don't know if the USB interface adds anything; I suspect not.
So the best option is either XON/XOFF or None -- probably None.*

.. image:: screenshots/configure_balance.png

*The balance says (p15 of its manual) that it copes with XON/XOFF.*

When you click "Start..." it starts the RFID readers, balances, and connects to
Whisker.

=======================
Data storage and output
=======================

All data goes to the database (as well as to Whisker if connected).

The balance won't produce numbers until it's tared and calibrated. The default
is for an 0.1kg calibration mass, so you just start; click the Tare/calibrate
button; then remove all mass and click "Tare", then put the 0.1kg mass on and
click "Calibrate 0.1kg". It'll store the readings so you don't necessarily have
to recalibrate next time.

.. image:: screenshots/calibrate_balance.png

Tested and working on Windows XP, Windows 10, and Linux. The "Help" button
gives tips on getting communication with the balance/RFID reader, since their
interfaces are decidedly cryptic.

When it's running and things are happening, it looks like this:

.. image:: screenshots/running.png

Here are some examples of the output, as seen by Sqliteman:

.. image:: screenshots/sqliteman_rfid_event.png

.. image:: screenshots/sqliteman_mass_event.png

... and by Whisker:

.. image:: screenshots/whisker_event_log.png
